The prototype design pattern guarantees a unique instance per request,
and, thus, the scope inside of a Spring container mimics that design pattern.
Each time you request a bean from the container,
you're guaranteed a unique instance.
It is essentially the opposite of a singleton.
The configuration of a prototype is nearly identical to a singleton,
so let's look at a small code snippet of how that's
configured and then integrate that into our code.
The configuration is very simple.
You just set that to a string of type prototype.
We'll go ahead and use the bean definition just like we did for the singleton,
and everything's already configured in our application to
show us that this sample is going to work.
Let's take a look at that code now.
I've opened up the AppConfig back where we had it before
with the BeanDefinition.SCOPE_SINGLETON,
and I want to replace that with SCOPE_PROTOTYPE.
We've already configured our Application.java to show the object
address to see that it's unique per request.
So let's now run this and see if our object address has changed per request.
When we run this,
you'll notice now there is a unique instance every time we
ask for that bean from the container.
So our object address before was 73700b80.
Yours will be different because of your instance,
printed out the name, and then it has the new object address of 10d307f1.
Again, yours will be different,
but now you can see that since changing that to a prototype instance,
it is now giving us a unique bean per request,
now, per request of the bean from the context.
If you hang onto that bean and do stuff with it for the next 10 minutes,
it will still be the same bean,
but every time we ask for a new one for the container,
it's going to give us a unique one back.
Just so we don't mess up any future demos,
let's go ahead and change that back to SINGLETON.
I'm going to select SCOPE_SINGLETON, save that,
switch back to our application, run it again and make sure that it's ran,
and everything look correct. We've got the same object address as before and after.